HELLO EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE MAY 20 25
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I'M CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN.
THE MEETING IS STARTING AT 7:00
P.M. LET'S START WITH SOME
NOTES ABOUT THE MEETING FORMAT
AND THEN WE WILL BEGIN FIRST
OF ALL REGARDING REMOTE
PARTICIPATION IN THIS MEETING
IS AVAILABLE BY TELEPHONE OR
THROUGH ONLINE VIDEO
CONFERENCING.
PLEASE SEE THE MEETING AGENDA
FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION AND
INCLUDING PHONE NUMBERS AND THE
WEB LINK TO REQUEST TO SPEAK IF
LISTENING BY PHONE PRESS STAR
NINE IF YOU ARE VIDEO
CONFERENCING USE THE RAISE HAND
BUTTON WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR THE
BACKGROUND SOUNDS PUBLIC
COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN PERSON
OR BY TELEPHONE DURING THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AGENDA ITEM AND
DURING EACH PUBLIC HEARING WE
WILL FIRST CALL ON IN PERSON
INDIVIDUALS TO ADDRESS THE
BOARD AND THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
FINALLY HERE IS AN OVERVIEW
OF THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR
EACH HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
FIRST PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION.
FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED.
LET'S MOVE ON TO ROLL CALL THIS
SHOULD GO QUICKLY ACTUALLY MISS
THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL COMMISSIONER SMITH,
MR. FORTNER, COMMISSIONER
CALDERON, YOUR COMMISSIONER FOR
US COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE YOU
CURRENTLY HAVE TWO MEMBERS.
ONE MORE IS EXPECTED.
UNFORTUNATELY WE DO NOT HAVE A
QUORUM TONIGHT.
WE HAD A COUPLE OF LAST MINUTE
CANCELATIONS SO THE MEETING
WILL BE HELD.
WE WILL COVER THE THINGS ON THE
AGENDA BUT WE ARE NOT ABLE TO
TAKE ACTION ON APPLICATIONS AND
YOU CAN'T APPROVE THE MINUTES
BECAUSE OF THE TWO THINGS.
BUT IT IS OK TO EVICT SERIOUSLY
I LEFT TONIGHT'S APPLICANT NO
VIA EMAIL.
YOU'RE LISTENING RIGHT NOW.
YOU CAN TAKE A LOOK AT THAT BUT
WE ARE STILL GOING TO GO
THROUGH THAT VERY GOOD.
AND WE'VE GOT A THIRD JOINING
US RIGHT NOW.
SO HELLO STEVE.
HI THERE.
WELL NOW GO TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
SO THE AGENDA BASICALLY STANDS
AS IT IS WILL STILL GO THROUGH
IT ALL.
BUT ARE THERE ANY OTHER CHANGES
OR DELETIONS, ANYTHING THAT WE
SEE?
>> OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTION.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED NOW WE'LL HAVE OUR
PUBLIC COMMENTS SECTION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
FOR UP TO FIVE MINUTES I SHOULD
SAY UP TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT A
ISSUE THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A
PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS AGENDA
TO REQUEST TO SPEAK
OF LISTENING BY PHONE.
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU ARE
VIDEO CONFERENCING, USE THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON.
OK, THERE'S OK.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY ONE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT TODAY SO WE WILL
CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT AND
AND MOVE ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS TO TAKE
CARE OF .
SO MOVE RIGHT AHEAD ON TO
HEARINGS INTO HEARING EF1 AND
THAT IS FIVE TWENTY SIX FIFTH
STREET.
SO WE'LL START WITH THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER YOU'RE READY.
MISS THATCHER THE STAFF REPORT
PLEASE.
THANK ALL RIGHT.
FIVE TWENTY SIX FIFTH STREET IS
FAMILIAR TO YOU ALL.
I'M NOT GOING TO SPEND A WHOLE
LOT OF TIME WITH YOU BECAUSE
YOU JUST SAW IT LAST.
THIS IS A TWO STORY ITALIANATE
THAT WAS PRESENT CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1894 AND COULD
BE OLDER AND IT WAS BEFORE YOU
LAST MONTH TO ALLOW LET'S SEE A
NEW BILL HODOR ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE REAR EDITION AND A
COVERED PATIO BEHIND THE HOUSE.
SO THIS NEW APPLICATION TODAY
IS SEEKING APPROVAL TO BUILD A
GARAGE WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT AT THE REAR
OF THE LOT VERY QUICKLY GOING
THROUGH THESE PHOTOS, WALKING
AROUND THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
YOU CAN CLEARLY SEE WHERE THE
ADDITION IS.
IT'S THIS HALF THE BUILDING
THAT DOES NOT HAVE A STONE
PORCH ON THE SIDE.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THE GARAGE THAT'S
THERE NOW IT IS NOT A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE.
IT WAS BUILT AFTER
1944 AND
THAT'S THE BACK OF THE GARAGE
IN QUESTION THAT WOULD BE
DEMOLISHED IN ORDER TO BUILD A
NEW GARAGE WHICH WOULD BE
PUSHED FARTHER BACK INTO THIS
CORNER IN ORDER TO GET A LITTLE
MORE SPACE BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THE GARAGE WHICH IS
APPRECIATED.
THE WHOLE NEW STRUCTURE WOULD
BE AS CLOSE TO THE SIDE OF YOUR
LINES AS POSSIBLE FOR ZONING IN
THIS BACK CORNER YOU CAN SEE
RIGHT NOW THE GARAGE IS PRETTY
CLOSE TO THE HOUSE AND AGAIN
THAT DEPTH WILL BE INCREASED A
LITTLE BIT.
THE GARAGE HAS A LITTLE SHUT
OFF THE BACK.
THERE'S THAT BACK CORNER OF THE
LOT AGAIN YOU CAN SEE THAT
THERE AREN'T ANY BIG TREES
BEHIND IT OR ANYTHING THAT WILL
BE IN THE WAY OR NEED TO BE
REMOVED.
THIS IS THE VIEW DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY.
THE NEW THE NEW STRUCTURE
THAT'S PROPOSED IS IS
CONSIDERABLY TALLER THAN THIS
ONE.
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT OF A TALL
GARAGE FOR ONE STORY.
THE NEW ONE IS TWO STORIES.
BUT KEEP IN MIND THAT IT WILL
BE SET BACK FARTHER A LITTLE
BIT FARTHER FROM THE HOUSE THAN
THIS ON
.
ALL RIGHT.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING WOULD BE
TWENTY FEET WIDE AND 30 FEET
DEEP IT'S AND AROUND 18 FEET
FROM THE REAR CORNER OF THE
HOUSE ALREADY MENTIONED THAT
IT'S PUSHED BACK AS FAR AS IT
CAN GO ABOUT TEN FEET FARTHER
BACK THAN THE ONE IN THE GARAGE
THAT'S THERE NOW THE BUILDING
IS 21 FEET PART OF THE MIDPOINT
OF THE GABLE FOR ZONING THAT IS
THE TALLEST ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
THAT YOU CAN BUILD ROOF WHICH
IS SIX OVER TWELVE FOUNDATION
IS TWO COURSES OF MASONRY WOOD
LAMP SIDING FORGE EXPOSURE WOOD
CORNER TRIM.
THERE'S A TRIMBACH HERE UNDER
THE EAVES AND THERE'S A SMALL
SHINGLED AWNING THAT RUNS
ACROSS THE FRONT ABOVE THE
GARAGE DOOR AND THE PERSON DOOR
WINDOWS ARE ANDERSON.
FOUR HUNDRED SERIES CLAD FOR
OVER ONE AND SIX OVER ONE.
>> OK SO I CLARIFIED THIS WITH
THE BUILDER THE WINDOWS ARE ALL
ONE OVER ONE.
THEY WILL NOT HAVE ANY DIVIDERS
OR MOUNTAINS OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
>> SO THE BUILDER SAYS ONE
OF ONE SASHAYS.
I GOT A LITTLE BIT
OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THAT
WAS IN THE PACKET AT THE END
OF THIS REPORT.
>> PRETTY SIMPLE.
A COUPLE OF WINDOWS ON EACH
SIDE.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY THE
PROPORTIONS OF SORT OF A
HISTORIC OLD BARN.
A LOT OF THE TIMES BARNS WERE
MADE THIS TALL IN ORDER TO GET
THE HAY UPSTAIRS AND GET THE
HORSE IN THE CARRIAGE
DOWNSTAIRS.
>> THERE AREN'T A LOT OF THOSE
LEFT AND THERE'S NO RECORD THAT
THIS LOT EVER HAD A A BARN OR A
GARAGE IN THE BACK EARLIER THAN
THE ONE THAT'S THERE NOW
RECTANGULAR FOUNDATION SUPER
STRAIGHT FORWARD.
>> THERE'S A PERSON DOOR HERE
THAT GOES TO THE UPSTAIRS TO
THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT GOT
SOME WINDOWS AND DIMENSION'S
THERE DIMENSION'S ACROSS THE
FRONT.
>> IT'S JUST A BEDROOM.
>> HERE'S THE HERE'S A HEIGHT
LET'S SEE AT THE EEB.
>> LET'S DO A COMPARISON HERE.
>> THIS IS SIXTEEN SEVENTEEN
UH
1789 EIGHTEEN THIS IS 19 FEET
TALL AT THE EVE.
OK, I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU IN A
MINUTE THE HOUSE BECAUSE WE
DON'T REALLY HAVE OUR SIDE BY
SIDE COMPARISON OF THE TWO.
THIS IS JUST THE SITE PLAN
SHOWING WHERE THE NEW
COVERED LAYNIE THAT WAS
APPROVED AND OVER HERE WILL BE
THE BILL CORRIDOR THAT WERE
APPROVED AT THE LAST MEETING.
>> THIS IS THE PLACEMENT OF THE
NEW GARAGE.
IT'S JUST FIVE FEET OFF THE
BACK AND THREE FEET OFF THE
SIDE PROPERTY LINES WHICH IS
THE MINIMUM ALLOWED PER ZONING
.
>> YOU CAN SEE THAT IT GIVES
THEM A LITTLE BIT MORE SPACE
HERE THAN THEY'VE GOT NOW AND
THAT IS THE PROPOSED FOOTPRINT
OF THE NEW GARAGE.
THIS IS THE HOUSE AND THE HOUSE
AT THE EHV IS YETH.
THAT'S THE BASEMENT.
WE DON'T WANT THAT NINE, TEN,
TEN AND A HALF ELEVEN NINETEEN
AND A HALF TWENTY FEET A COUPLE
INCHES SHY OF TWENTY.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO BE PRETTY
COMPARABLE IN SIZE THE HOUSE IS
APPROXIMATELY TWENTY FIVE FEET
TO THE ROOF RIDGE AND THE YOU I
DID NOT APPROXIMATE THAT HEIGHT
BUT THEY'RE THEY'RE PRETTY
SIMILAR.
I THINK THE ADA IS GOING TO BE
LIKE LIKE I KNOW TWENTY FOUR OR
SOMETHING TO THE ROOF RIDGE
THEY DO HAVE THE SAME ROOF
WHICH SO I ALREADY TOLD YOU
ABOUT THE WINDOWS THEY'LL BE
ANDERSON FOUR HUNDRED SERIES
VINYL CLASS THEY'LL HAVE NO
MONTAIGNE'S PERSON DOORS
FIBERGLASS WITH PANELS AND NO
WINDOW AND THE OVERHEAD DOOR
THE GARAGE DOOR IS INSULATED
ALUMINUM WITH PANELS AND NO
WINDOWS.
>> SO FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS NUMBERS
TWO AND NINE AND TEN APPLY.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE THE
TIME TO READ ALL OF THESE RIGHT
NOW SINCE YOU GUYS KNOW THEM
AND WE AND YOU'RE NOT ACTUALLY
CONSIDERING THIS TO TAKE A VOTE
ON TONIGHT.
>> BUT THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF RECOMMENDATIONS THAT I
WANTED TO POINT OUT HERE.
>> LET'S SEE.
SO OF COURSE IS RETAINING THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPED FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACE.
I THINK THAT THIS ACCOMPLISHES
THIS BETTER THAN THE CURRENT
GARAGE BECAUSE IT PUSHES IT
BACK ANOTHER 10 FEET.
I DO THINK THAT THE DESIGN IS
COMPATIBLE THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING IN
SIGHT.
IT'S IT'S SORT OF A RECTANGULAR
VARNISH SHAPE.
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE A BARN
WHICH IS GOOD BECAUSE IT'S NOT
A BARN BUT IT DOESN'T LOOK I
DON'T BELIEVE IT LOOKS
INCOMPATIBLE.
IT'LL BE CLAD IN WOOD.
>> YOU KNOW, THE WINDOWS WILL
BE THE SAME ONES THAT ARE USED
ON THE HOUSE
.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE A NEW BUILDING OR
SITE FEATURE.
IT'S OUT OF SCALE OR OF AN
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE DESIGN.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THE
COMMISSION WILL HAVE TO DECIDE
.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO USE A ROOF
SHAPE AND PITCH THAT REPLICATES
THE SHAPE AND PITCH OF THE ROOF
OF THE MAIN STRUCTURE WHICH IT
DOES AND THE WINDOWS AND DOORS
ARE COMPATIBLE PROPORTION IN
STYLE TO THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> OH HERE'S MY NOT APPROPRIATE
THAT I WAS LOOKING FOR
DESIGNING A GARAGE OR OTHER
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE THAT IS
TALLER OR LARGER THAN THE MAIN
HOUSE CERTAINLY NOT LARGER.
>> IT'S TWENTY FEET WIDE WHICH
IS PRETTY STANDARD MAXIMUM
WIDTH FOR AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT THAT AT LEAST THAT
WE'VE SEEN SO FAR.
IT'S JUST A QUESTION OF WHETHER
THE HEIGHT IS AN ISSUE.
>> SO LET ME SEE IF I'VE GOT
ANYTHING ELSE IN HERE TO TALK
THROUGH
.
DESIGN IS SIMPLE AND COMPATIBLE
I BELIEVE IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH
.
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
I BELIEVE IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
THE HOUSES AROUND IT'S A BIG
NEIGHBORHOOD.
LOT.
THE HOUSES AROUND IT'S A BIG
IT'S A FULL SIZED OLD WEST SIDE
LOT.
WHICH IS ALSO HELPFUL.
IT'S A FULL SIZED OLD WEST SIDE
>> AND IF YOU GUYS WERE VOTING
WHICH IS ALSO HELPFUL.
ON THIS I WOULD BE RECOMMENDING
>> AND IF YOU GUYS WERE VOTING
APPROVAL OF IT BUT WE CAN
ON THIS I WOULD BE RECOMMENDING
HOPEFULLY JUST GO THROUGH IT
APPROVAL OF IT BUT WE CAN
AND IF YOU SEE ANYTHING THAT'S
HOPEFULLY JUST GO THROUGH IT
DEFICIENT OR YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
AND IF YOU SEE ANYTHING THAT'S
THEN WE CAN ASK THOSE OF THE
DEFICIENT OR YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
HOMEOWNERS OR WE CAN REQUEST
THEN WE CAN ASK THOSE OF THE
MORE INFORMATION.
HOMEOWNERS OR WE CAN REQUEST
THANK YOU.
MORE INFORMATION.
I'M GOING TO PROMOTE THE BLACKS
THANK YOU.
.
I'M GOING TO PROMOTE THE BLACKS
>> SO ARE WE SKIPPING THE
.
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT OR
>> SO ARE WE SKIPPING THE
SHOULD WE JUST DO ALL THAT
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT OR
STUFF AND JUST BASICALLY WE'LL
SHOULD WE JUST DO ALL THAT
DO EVERYTHING EXCEPT VOTE, OK?
STUFF AND JUST BASICALLY WE'LL
>> EXACTLY.
DO EVERYTHING EXCEPT VOTE, OK?
EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY.
VERY GOOD.
EXACTLY.
SO WHILE YOU PROMOTE THEM WE'LL
VERY GOOD.
WE'LL DO THE THE REVIEW
SO WHILE YOU PROMOTE THEM WE'LL
COMMITTEE REPORT.
WE'LL DO THE THE REVIEW
WE'VE GOT COMMISSIONERS LUCKILY
COMMITTEE REPORT.
THE TWO THEY'RE HERE WE'RE ON
WE'VE GOT COMMISSIONERS LUCKILY
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE SO
THE TWO THEY'RE HERE WE'RE ON
COMMISSIONERS CALDERON AND
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE SO
KAPLIN SO WHO WANTS TO GIVE THE
COMMISSIONERS CALDERON AND
REPORT FIRST?
KAPLIN SO WHO WANTS TO GIVE THE
>> I'LL GO AHEAD JUST I THINK
REPORT FIRST?
EVERYTHING THAT EVERYTHING WAS
>> I'LL GO AHEAD JUST I THINK
SAID THIS IS PRETTY
EVERYTHING THAT EVERYTHING WAS
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
SAID THIS IS PRETTY
WE SAW A LOT OF WHAT THEY WERE
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
PLANNING TO DO AND THE
WE SAW A LOT OF WHAT THEY WERE
CONTRACTOR THAT WAS ON SITE IN
PLANNING TO DO AND THE
THE FIRST MEETING HAD HAD
CONTRACTOR THAT WAS ON SITE IN
CALLED OUR ATTENTION TO THE
THE FIRST MEETING HAD HAD
FACT THAT THEY WERE GOING TO BE
CALLED OUR ATTENTION TO THE
COMING RIGHT BACK WITH WITH A
FACT THAT THEY WERE GOING TO BE
PROPOSAL FOR THE GARAGE AND IT
COMING RIGHT BACK WITH WITH A
DOES SEEM IN KEEPING AND
PROPOSAL FOR THE GARAGE AND IT
EVERYWHERE THE ONLY THING AS
DOES SEEM IN KEEPING AND
THE HOUSE OR AS THE GARAGE
EVERYWHERE THE ONLY THING AS
STRUCTURE MOVES BACK, THAT
THE HOUSE OR AS THE GARAGE
SEEMS TO ME THAT LEAVES MORE
STRUCTURE MOVES BACK, THAT
SPACE FOR AVOIDING CONFLICT
SEEMS TO ME THAT LEAVES MORE
WITH SOME OF THE LOWER BRANCHES
SPACE FOR AVOIDING CONFLICT
OF A REALLY NICE OAK TREE
WITH SOME OF THE LOWER BRANCHES
THAT'S THAT'S IN FRONT OF THE
OF A REALLY NICE OAK TREE
GARAGE.
THAT'S THAT'S IN FRONT OF THE
>> I'M NOT SURE HOW THE THE
GARAGE.
GROUND PREP FOR THE NEW
>> I'M NOT SURE HOW THE THE
STRUCTURE IN TERMS OF FOOTINGS
GROUND PREP FOR THE NEW
MIGHT CONFLICT WITH THE ROOT
STRUCTURE IN TERMS OF FOOTINGS
MASS OF THE TREE IN THE BACK
MIGHT CONFLICT WITH THE ROOT
AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A
MASS OF THE TREE IN THE BACK
LANDMARK TREE OR NOT.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A
IT'S ACTUALLY NOT ON THE OWNER
LANDMARK TREE OR NOT.
OF THE HOMEOWNER'S PROPERTY.
IT'S ACTUALLY NOT ON THE OWNER
THERE IS A BIG TREE BACK THERE
OF THE HOMEOWNER'S PROPERTY.
THAT WE GET CLOSER TO AND I
THERE IS A BIG TREE BACK THERE
DIDN'T I DIDN'T WALK OVER TO
THAT WE GET CLOSER TO AND I
THE NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY TO SEE
DIDN'T I DIDN'T WALK OVER TO
SORT OF WHERE WHERE IT SEEMS
THE NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY TO SEE
LIKE THE ROOT MASS MIGHT BE AND
SORT OF WHERE WHERE IT SEEMS
I'M CERTAINLY NOT AN ARBORIST.
LIKE THE ROOT MASS MIGHT BE AND
>> IT'S SOMETHING TO, YOU KNOW,
I'M CERTAINLY NOT AN ARBORIST.
MAYBE PAY ATTENTION TO OTHER
>> IT'S SOMETHING TO, YOU KNOW,
THAN THAT EVERYTHING ON THE
MAYBE PAY ATTENTION TO OTHER
STRUCTURE AND HOW IT WAS
THAN THAT EVERYTHING ON THE
PROPOSED MAKES PERFECT SENSE.
STRUCTURE AND HOW IT WAS
>> IS IT THAT TREE COMMISSIONER
PROPOSED MAKES PERFECT SENSE.
KEVIN IT'S THIS TREE IN FRONT
>> IS IT THAT TREE COMMISSIONER
THAT'S SO YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
KEVIN IT'S THIS TREE IN FRONT
PICTURE THAT THERE'S A REALLY
THAT'S SO YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
MASSIVE LOWER BRANCH AND IF YOU
PICTURE THAT THERE'S A REALLY
WOULD IF YOU WERE TO PUT THIS
MASSIVE LOWER BRANCH AND IF YOU
STRUCTURE RIGHT WHERE IT IS AND
WOULD IF YOU WERE TO PUT THIS
GO UP TO 21 FEET, YOU'D
STRUCTURE RIGHT WHERE IT IS AND
PROBABLY HAVE TO TRIM THAT
GO UP TO 21 FEET, YOU'D
BRANCH TO MAKE IT WORK.
PROBABLY HAVE TO TRIM THAT
BUT THE EXTRA FIVE FEET GOING
BRANCH TO MAKE IT WORK.
BACK AWAY FROM IT ACTUALLY BUYS
BUT THE EXTRA FIVE FEET GOING
THEM A LOT MORE SPACE THAN THEY
BACK AWAY FROM IT ACTUALLY BUYS
MIGHT GET AWAY WITH NOT
THEM A LOT MORE SPACE THAN THEY
TOUCHING IT.
MIGHT GET AWAY WITH NOT
>> GOOD.
TOUCHING IT.
THANK YOU.
>> GOOD.
AND AGAIN I AGREE WITH THE CAP
THANK YOU.
CAPTAIN THE AND VERY
AND AGAIN I AGREE WITH THE CAP
STRAIGHTFORWARD IT'S REPLACING
CAPTAIN THE AND VERY
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE
.
IT'S BEING REPLACED THE
COMPATIBLE BIN IDENTICAL 82.
IT DOESN'T SEEM TO IMPACT THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE COMPROMISE.
IT'S HISTORIC CHARACTER.
AGAIN, I THINK THE ONLY
CONVERSATION WE HAD ON SITE WAS
ABOUT THAT BACK TREE AND
WHETHER THAT HAVE TO BE CUT
DOWN OR REMOVED FOR BECAUSE
IT'S ITS ROOTS MAYBE BEING TOO
CLOSE THE FOUNDATION OF THE
IDEA OK, THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION.
SO WE'VE GOT THE APPLICANT AND
ZOOM TODAY SO IF YOU COULD
PLEASE ON MUTE AND PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK ABOUT YOUR APPLICATION
AND RESPOND TO WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD SO FAR FROM FROM STAFF
AND THE COMMISSIONERS.
>> HI, WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
ARE YOU ABLE TO HEAR ME?
ABSOLUTELY.
GET NAMES DOWN BLANK.
THIS IS SHERRY BLACK AND
OF COURSE WE WERE THERE LAST
MONTH AND APPRECIATE THE
COMMITTEE'S TIME.
>> WE WANT TO BUILD THE AIDOO
IN THE GARAGE BECAUSE WE WANT
TO HAVE A BIT MORE SPACE.
WE ARE VERY SUPPORTIVE OF THE
UNIVERSITY.
WE'VE ENDOWED A POSITION
NURSING SCHOOL.
WE AND WE DON'T KNOW WHO
EXACTLY WOULD USE THE ADA BUT
WE THINK THAT THAT MAY BE
HELPFUL IN THE FUTURE AS WE
INTERACT WITH THE UNIVERSITY
GOING FORWARD BECAUSE THE TREE
WE ARE ALSO VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT IT.
WE HAD ARBORISTS OUT THE FIRST
WEEK THAT WE HAD PURCHASED THE
PLACE BACK IN SEPTEMBER.
THEY THINK THAT TREE IN THE
BACK IS ACTUALLY DOING PRETTY
WELL DESPITE THE FACT THAT HAD
THIS CONCRETE PAD POURED OVER
MOST OF ITS ROOTS, OUR PLAN
WHICH AGAIN WE HAVEN'T TALKED
ABOUT BUT WE WOULD LIKE TO GET
FEEDBACK AS TO WHETHER THAT
WOULD NEED TO GO HGC BUT OUR
PLAN IS TO TAKE UP THE CONCRETE
AND PUT IT PERMEABLE DRIVEWAY
IN AND ACTUALLY GOING TO ALTER
PART OF THE REASON OF MOVING
THE GARAGE AND ADDING BACK IS
TO GIVE US MORE ROOM TO TO
CHANGE THE DRIVEWAY SO THEY CAN
AVOID THAT TREE AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
THE FEELING OF THE OBVERSE WAS
THAT TREE IS ACTUALLY IN QUITE
GOOD SHAPE.
THEY THINK IT'S ABOUT HUNDRED
AND FIFTY YEARS OLD ABOUT THE
TIME THAT THAT HOUSE WAS BUILT
AND THEN THE TREE IN THE FRONT.
UNFORTUNATELY THEY'RE MUCH MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT SO TRYING TO
TAKE CARE BOTH OF THEM WE SHARE
THE COMMUNITY'S CONCERN ABOUT
THE TREES.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT.
>> OK, SO NOW I'M WONDERING IF
THE COMMISSION HERE HAS ANY
QUESTIONS FOR FOR DON AND SHERI
.
I WAS WONDERING IT'S FUNNY THAT
YOU WERE TALKING A LOT ABOUT
THE THE DRIVEWAY.
I WASN'T EXPECTING THAT BECAUSE
I DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THE TREES
BUT MY QUESTION WAS ABOUT THE
DRIVEWAY.
BUT MAYBE IT'S NOT RELEVANT
ANYMORE IF YOU'RE GOING TO
CHANGE THE DRIVEWAY.
BUT WHAT WE'VE GOT IS A SITE
PLAN AND ON THE SITE PLAN
YOU'VE GOT THE CONCRETE DRIVE
THERE BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR WHAT
WHAT IS EXISTING CONCRETE AND
WHAT IS NEW CONCRETE.
AND SO I WAS JUST LOOKING AT
THAT SITE PLAN EXPECTING TO SEE
SOME SOME PORTION OF IT LABELED
AS NEW SO THAT IS ONE THING
THAT I WAS EXPECTING TO SEE
THAT WASN'T THERE.
>> AND THEN THE OTHER THING
THAT YOU COULD HEAR STAFF
TALKING ABOUT IT AND YOU KNOW,
FOR A PROJECT LIKE THIS WHERE
THERE'S SOMETHING NEW BEING
CONSTRUCT DID IN THE NEAR
HISTORIC PROPERTIES THE
COMMISSION IS YOU KNOW, WE KIND
OF STRUGGLE WITH WELL IS IT YOU
KNOW IS IT SUBORDINATE TO THE
HISTORIC PROPERTY OR IS IT
SOMEHOW GOING TO IMPACT THE
EXISTING HISTORIC PROPERTY?
>> SO SOMETHING YOU KNOW, SOME
DRAWING IT COULD BE LIKE A SITE
ELEVATION THAT WOULD SHOW THE
EXISTING HOUSE WITHIN WITH THE
LYNNAE AND WITH THE GARAGE ALL
TOGETHER IN ONE DRAWING SO WE
COULD SEE OH NO, NO, NO, IT'S
FINE.
>> IT'S SO FAR BACK AND IT
ACTUALLY IS A LITTLE SMALLER
THAT IT'S NOT GOING TO IMPACT
THE HISTORIC HOME AT ALL.
TYPICALLY A PERSPECTIVE DRAWING
IS EVEN BETTER IF YOU HAVE IT
IN 3D BECAUSE THAT THE
ELEVATION EVERYTHING LOOKS
REALLY TALL IN IT ELEVATION BUT
WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT IT FROM
THE SIDEWALK IT'S GOING TO LOOK
YOU KNOW, IN MY MIND I'M TRYING
TO IMAGINE IT AND IT'S HARD
BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE A DRAWING
BUT IT'S LIKE IT'S TALL BUT
IT'S ALSO FAR AWAY SO YOU KNOW
WHICH WHICH WINDS THERE?
IS IT THE FAR AWAY THAT'S
WINNING MORE OR IS THAT THE
TALLER THAT'S WINNING MORE AND
SO WE'RE JUST KIND OF GUESSING
RIGHT NOW WITHOUT EITHER
OF THOSE TWO DRAWINGS AND
UNFORTUNATELY WE YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE TO WE HAVE TO PROTECT THE
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY SO IF
WE'RE GUESSING THAT'S PROBABLY
NOT NOT GOOD FOR US BECAUSE
WHERE WE WANT TO BE MORE
CONSERVATIVE SO I JUST THAT WAS
THAT WAS TWO COMMENTS I GUESS
THOSE ARE TWO QUESTIONS AT ALL
BUT YOU'RE WELCOME TO COMMENT
BACK SO DON, JUST DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO RESPOND TO THAT?
>> YEAH, SO THE EVERYTHING
THAT'S THERE IS EXISTING
BECAUSE YOU SORT OF INCREMENTAL
AS FAR AS THE DRIVEWAY.
SO THAT'S ALL CONCRETE NOW.
BUT IF THE COMMITTEE WOULD BE
INTERESTED OBVIOUSLY WE CAN
WORK WITH THE ARCHITECT ON THAT
REPRESENTATION TO SHOW WHERE WE
WOULD EXPECT THE PERMEABLE
DRIVEWAY TO REPLACE.
BUT OUR PLAN IS TO GET RID
OF ALL THE CONCRETE FOR FOR
NUMEROUS REASONS AS FAR AS
PROSPECTIVE DRAWING, YOU KNOW,
I I DON'T KNOW ENOUGH ABOUT
ARCHITECTURAL SOFTWARE AS I
DOUBT IF THEY COULD RENDER THAT
IN THE SOFTWARE THAT THEY HAVE
THE DRAWINGS NOW AS FAR AS A
PROSPECTIVE BUT I HAVE FAMILY
MEMBERS WHO ARE ARCHITECTS AND
I CAN FIND OUT IF THERE'S
SOMETHING THAT THAT THEY COULD
FIT INTO IT TO PRESENT TO NEXT
TO THE TO THE JUNE MEETING.
>> WELL, YOU I'M SORRY TO
INTERRUPT YOU HAVE THE ELEVATOR
FOR BOTH DRAW LIKE I KNOW YOU
HAVE THE ELEVATION FOR THE FOR
THE HOUSE AND NOW YOU HAVE THE
ELEVATION FOUR SO IF YOU JUST
SIDE BY SIDE EVEN IF YOU JUST
SHOW IT AS IT WOULD BE RIGHT
FROM THE SIDE OH THE GARAGE IS
WAY BACK HERE THE HERE'S A
HOUSE THAT'S ALL TO SCALE SO WE
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THE POSITION
IS AND IF YOU LIKE HOW THAT
LOOKS AND YOU'RE WILLING TO
SHARE IT WITH US THEN WE WOULD
REALLY LIKE TO SEE THAT WE'LL
DO THE BEST WE CAN.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AN
ELEVATION FROM LIKE THIS
SIDEWALK LET'S SAY YOU'LL SHOW
IT AND IT'LL LOOK BAD BECAUSE
YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO TELL THAT
THE GARAGE IS WAY FAR BACK.
SO IF YOU SHOW THE FRONT
ELEVATION LIKE FROM THE
SIDEWALK YOU REALLY ALSO NEED
TO SHOW THE SIDE ELEVATION YOU
KNOW SO THAT'S THE ONE THAT'S
GOING TO HELP YOU OUT IN TERMS
OF TRYING TO GET THIS APPROVED.
>> VERY GOOD AND NONE OF THAT
IS REQUIRED.
>> IT'S JUST THAT THAT'S GOING
TO HELP US OUT.
AS I SAY, A PICTURE IS WORTH A
THOUSAND WORDS.
>> AND LET ME JUST ASK STAFF
HERE WHAT REGARDING A GRAVEL
DRIVEWAY WHAT DO YOU RECOMMEND
THAT THEY DO?
>> I THINK THE BLACK SAID
PERMEABLE AND PERMEABLE PAVERS.
OH WELL, WHATEVER YOU'RE
PROPOSING FOR THE DRIVEWAY, YOU
WANT TO SIT DOWN WITH YOUR
WINDOWS.
YOU WANTED TO BE PERMEABLE IN
SOME WAY.
OK, WE DON'T WANT CONCRETE.
OK, SO WE HAVE WE HAVEN'T THAT
IS IS THAT TRUE?
IS THAT THAT WE CAN DEMOLITION
AND RECONSTRUCTION OF THE HOUSE
AND THEN THE DENHA ARE PRETTY
BIG PROJECTS.
WE HAVEN'T REALLY MOVED TO THE
DRIVEWAY BEYOND KNOWING WE WANT
TO GET RID OF THE CONCRETE.
>> OK THEN I WOULD RECOMMEND
THAT YOU IT IS A CHANGE IN
MATERIALS SO IT DOES NEED SOME
SORT OF HGC APPROVAL.
SO I WOULD SUGGEST THAT IF
YOU'RE COMING UP WITH A NEW
SITE DRAWING WHERE YOU WANT THE
PERMEABLE PAVEMENT TO GO
PRESENT THAT WAY AND SAY YEP
THIS IS GOING TO BE PERMEABLE
COULD BE PAVERS, COULD BE
SOMETHING ELSE AND AT LEAST
THEN WE KNOW THE EXTENT OF IT
AND THAT'S USUALLY THE
COMMISSION'S BIGGEST CONCERN IS
WHERE IT WILL GO AND YOU KNOW,
WE CAN PROBABLY STAFF APPROVE
IT LATER IF YOU CHANGE YOUR
MATERIAL OR SOMETHING.
>> I THINK THAT THE BIGGEST
QUESTION IS WHERE THE SURFACE
WILL BE IF SOMETHING HAPPENS
IT'LL BE SIMILAR TO WHERE IT'S
AT NOW BUT OUR HOPE IS TO
REDUCE IT AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
>> GOOD.
THAT'S GOOD.
OK, ANY TIME JUST AS A REMINDER
FOR EVERYONE IN OUR STUDIO
AUDIENCE, EVERY TIME YOU CHANGE
A MATERIAL IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT YOU DO NEED SOME SORT
OF HISTORIC DISTRICT APPROVAL
EITHER FROM STAFF OR FROM THE
COMMISSION ESPECIALLY IF
HISTORIC MATERIALS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD PLUG THERE.
>> OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING WELL
WE HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS EVEN THOUGH THERE'S NO
QUORUM OR WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT
THE PUBLIC HEARING WE DON'T
NEED TO HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING,
OK?
THERE'S NO ONE IN ATTENDANCE
FOR THIS PUBLIC SO WE'RE JUST
GOING TO RE ADVERTISE IT FOR
NEXT MONTH.
>> FANTASTIC.
OK, SO DON AND SHERRI, THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US TODAY.
I'M SORRY THAT THIS WE DON'T
HAVE ENOUGH PEOPLE HERE TO
VOTE.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE THREE
MONTHS IN A ROW THAT WE GET TO
SEE YOU BUT I AM SORRY THAT WE
COULDN'T COMPLETE THIS
APPLICATION TONIGHT.
I APPRECIATE THE SILVER LINING
IS WILL BE THERE IN OUR NEXT
MONTH ALSO BUT WE
WILL SEE YOU
IN PERSON THEN.
THAT'LL BE NICE.
OK, DO ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS COMMENTS
FOR THE APPLICANT.
AH OK VERY GOOD.
>> ALL RIGHT ONCE AGAIN THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US
AND WE'LL WE'LL SEE YOU NEXT
MONTH OK APPRECIATE IT.
>> OK SO THAT IS IN FACT ALL
THE HEARINGS WE HAVE FOR THIS
EVENING WHICH I GUESS IS GOOD
SO WE DON'T HAVE TO STACK THEM
ALL UP NEXT MONTH WE'LL JUST
HAVE ONE AND SO THEREFORE WE
WILL MOVE ON.
>> WE'VE GOT SOME NEW BUSINESS.
THERE'S THREE ITEMS.
>> THE FIRST ITEM ONE IS FOR A
HISTORIC MARKER APPLICATION SO
I'LL TURN THAT OVER TO STAFF.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, LEE.
>> SHARE MY SCREEN HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS A REQUEST FROM 717 WEST
HERE ON TO BE ABLE TO PUT A
HISTORIC MARKER ON THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS HOUSE IS GORGEOUS.
YEAH, IT'S BEEN D.C. A COUPLE
OF TIMES.
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW IF ANY
OF YOU HAVE SEEN HERE BUT YEAH,
THE HOUSE IS EXTREMELY WELL
MAINTAINED AND MOST RECENTLY
THERE WAS A NON ORIGINAL SIDE
PORCH THAT WAS ENCLOSED AND
IT'S IT LOOKS PERFECT WITH THE
HOUSE YOU WOULD NEVER REALIZE
UNTIL YOU GOT UP CLOSE THAT IT
HAD ALWAYS BEEN THERE BUT IT IS
DISTINGUISHED BY MATERIALS AND
THIS HOUSE IS THE NINETEEN 06
TITUS HOSTEL PUTZEL HOUSE WAS
THE ORIGINAL FAMILY HOME AND
THEN THERE'S IN THE APPLICATION
THERE'S SOME YOU KNOW,
SUCCESSORS WHO LIVED THERE.
>> CURRENT OWNER PURCHASED IT
IN 1982 AND IS LIVING THERE AND
IT RECEIVED A HISTORIC
PRESERVATION AWARD IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE SO OWNER LOVED AND
OCCUPIED WHICH WE ALWAYS
APPRECIATE.
>> SO I THINK THAT THIS HOUSE
IS SORT OF A SHOO IN FOR A
PLAQUE.
>> IT'S IT'S IT'S GREAT IT'S
MAINTAINED IT'S IT'S GOT THE
CARS HIDDEN BEHIND IT BUT HAS
SEVERAL APARTMENTS IN IT.
BIG HOUSE MAKES A LOT OF SENSE
AND STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO HAVE A
QUORUM FOR THIS.
>> JUST A MAJORITY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT.
>> OK, IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
REGARDING THE HISTORIC MARKER
HERE AT SEVEN SEVENTEEN WEST
YOU'RE FAMILIAR WITH THE HOUSE
I BUY ALL THE TIME YEAH.
>> MM.
IT REALLY IS YEAH.
IT'S A SPECTACULAR HOME.
>> OK SO JUST REMIND US REAL
QUICK WHAT ARE THE YOU KNOW WHY
WOULD WE VOTE NO HERE.
WHAT WHAT ARE SOME SOME THINGS
THAT WE'VE ALL WELL WE HAVE WE
HAVE THIS IS A WARNING SIGN
HERE IF THERE WERE WORK DONE ON
THE HOUSE THAT WOULD NOT MEET
THE SECRETARY'S INTERIOR
STANDARDS OR THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT THEN IT WOULD
SORT OF BE A NONSTARTER BECAUSE
THIS HOUSE WAS PRETTY RECENTLY
REVIEWED.
>> I'M VERY CONFIDENT THAT THAT
IT DOES MEET ALL OF THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
>> SO REALLY IF IF THERE WERE
INAPPROPRIATE WORK OR IF THERE
WAS OLD WORK THAT THAT WASN'T
IN KEEPING WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE OR IF IT
HAD A MOSTLY GREAT BUT IT HAD A
BIG ADDITION THAT WAS SORT
OF OUT OF PLACE THAT MIGHT BE A
PROBLEM.
YEAH, BUT EVERYTHING THAT'S
BEEN DONE AT THIS HOUSE IS
PRETTY APPROPRIATE.
YOU DO SEE A STAIRWAY AND
EGRESS DOOR THAT'S PROBABLY
BEEN THERE FOR A LONG TIME ON
THE RIGHT SIDE.
OK, BUT THAT ALONE IS VERY
REMOVABLE AND I DON'T THINK
THAT WOULD DISQUALIFY IT FROM
GETTING A HISTORIC MARKER.
OK, AND REMIND ME A HISTORIC
MARKER IS THAT A CITY EMBLEM OR
I MEAN THERE MUST BE RIGHT?
>> IT IS IT IS IT IS THERE
THERE ARE ABOUT THIS BIG AND
THERE BRONZE AND UNFORTUNATELY
THE VERY EXPENSIVE BECAUSE
THEY'RE BRONZE BUT THEY HAVE
THE THE YEAR OF THE HOUSE AND
THE FIRST OWNER OR OCCUPANT AND
YOU BOUGHT THEM NEAR THE FRONT
DOOR AND THE APPLICANT
UNFORTUNATELY HAS TO PAY FOR
THEM.
YEAH BUT BUT THEY GO THROUGH ME
THROUGH THE CITY TO GET ORDERED
LOCALLY.
>> YEAH.
FOR ME VERY GOOD.
OK WELL THAT WAS SOME GOOD
DISCUSSION AND INFORMATION.
DO WE JUST DO A VOTE OR DO WE
HAVE TO MAKE A MOTION.
OK WELL LET'S LET'S VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE HISTORIC
MARKER FOUR SEVEN ONE SEVEN
WEST HERE ON E STREET PLEASE
SAY YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, THE MARKER APPLICATION HAS
BEEN APPROVED.
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE OWNERS
OF SEVEN SEVENTEEN WEST YOU'RE
ON STREET BEAUTIFUL HOME
.
OK, SO NOW SOME OTHER BEAUTIFUL
STRUCTURES IN OUR CITY HERE WE
GET TO DISCUSS THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION AWARD
NOMINATIONS SO WE HAVE THE
NOMINATIONS HERE LISTED AND
WHAT I SUPPOSE WE WE WILL HAVE
TO APPROVE THIS LIST AS WELL.
>> YEAH, OK.
>> THERE ARE FIFTEEN NOMINEES
THAT DC AWARDS COMMITTEE
COMPILED AND WE WENT OUT AND
HAD VAN TOURS AND LOOKED AT ALL
OF THEM AND MADE SURE THAT
THERE SIMILAR TO WHAT WE JUST
DISCUSSED THERE WAS NO
INAPPROPRIATE WORK ON THE
HOUSES AND BUILDINGS AND THE
COMMITTEE CAME UP WITH FOR
PRESERVATION AWARDS FIVE REHAB
ONE SPECIAL MERIT AND FIVE
CENTENNIAL AWARDS AND THE
CENTENNIAL AWARDS.
WOW, THEY'RE NOT JUST
CENTENNIAL.
THERE'S CENTENNIAL ONE HUNDRED
FIFTIETH YEAR ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FIFTH YEAR.
>> OK, ROUND NUMBERS OVER ONE
HUNDRED.
>> YEAH EXACTLY GREAT SO WE
DON'T USUALLY BRING THE
COMMISSION THROUGH ALL OF THE
YEAH.
YOU KNOW PHOTOS ONLINE STUFF IF
YOU'RE NOT FAMILIAR WITH ANY
OF THESE OR IF YOU HAVE ANY
CONCERNS ABOUT ANY OF THESE
CERTAINLY NOW'S THE TIME TO
RAISE THEM BUT THEY HAVE BEEN
PRETTY WELL VETTED.
CATHY FORTNER IS ON THE OH
GOOD.
I WAS WONDERING ABOUT THAT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
AND SHE WENT THE VAN TO HER
GRADES HAS HELPED THE COMMITTEE
OUT.
WELL THAT'S THAT'S NICE.
I WAS GOOGLING SOME OF THE
ADDRESSES HERE EARLIER TODAY.
>> IT'S IT'S EXCITING FOR ALL
THESE AWARD WINNERS I'M SURE
BUT NO WHAT NO THIS IS NOT THIS
MUST BE PUBLIC BUT PEOPLE ARE
WON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS OR DO
THEY KNOW OR LETTERS WILL GO
OUT TOMORROW.
>> YEAH OK EXCITING.
>> IT'S NOT LIKE IT'S A SECRET
BUT RIGHT.
I WANTED TO BE A SURPRISE.
YEAH YEAH GOOD.
>> OK SO IF YOU KNOW ANYONE ON
THIS LIST DON'T SAY ANYTHING
UNTIL TOMORROW BUT LET'S LET'S
HAVE A VOTE HERE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF APPROVING THE DC
AWARDS LIST HERE FOR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE PLEASE SAY YES YES
YES ALL OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> OK SO THE AWARDS LIST HAS
BEEN APPROVED
.
A QUORUM WASN'T REQUIRED FOR
THAT.
>> OK YOU'VE GOT TO DON'T BE
ALARMED A MAJORITY OF THOSE
PRESENT APPROVED IT.
OK WE HAVE ONE MORE ITEM OF NEW
BUSINESS AND IT'S OUR MONTHLY
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
I LIKE HOW IT SAYS ASSIGNMENT
AND REVIEW.
IT DOES FEEL LIKE HOMEWORK
.
>> ONE MOMENT I QUIT.
YES
.
ALL RIGHT.
SEE HOW BIG I CAN BE.
>> OK, THAT LOOKS PRETTY GOOD.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE ON TO CHAPTER SIX
RELOCATION AND DEMOLITION.
THIS IS A CHAPTER THAT WE DON'T
HAVE TO DEAL WITH A WHOLE LOT
BUT WHEN WE DO HAVE TO DEAL
WITH IT, IT CAN BECOME A BIG
THING.
>> SO LET'S SEE GOING THROUGH
MARIJANA SUGGESTS THAT IT'S
WORTH DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN
RELOCATING A RESOURCE OUT OF A
DISTRICT VERSUS INTO A HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND YES, DAVE AGREES.
I AGREE THAT CAN BE CONFUSING.
PEOPLE OFTEN ASK ABOUT THAT.
CAN I BUY A HOUSE AND MOVE IT
TO A VACANT LOT IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT?
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
BUT IT WON'T BE A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IF IT CAME FROM
OUTSIDE OF THE DISTRICT.
>> IN FACT, IF YOU'RE MOVING A
HOUSE FROM THREE BLOCKS AWAY
WITHIN A HISTORIC DISTRICT, IT
STILL WON'T REMAIN A
CONTRIBUTING DISTRICT STRUCTURE
BY VIRTUE OF BEING MOVED AFTER
NINETEEN FORTY FOUR.
>> YES.
THAT BEING SAID, THE THE
RESTRICTIONS OR THE THOUGHT
THAT WE WOULD PUT INTO
CONSTRUCTION THE NEW STRUCTURE
IN AN HISTORIC DISTRICT, WOULD
THEY NOT APPLY TO THE STRUCTURE
THAT IS BEING MOVED INTO IT
LIKE LET'S SAY IT'S NOT
CONTRIBUTING IT GOES ON BUT WE
HAVE TO DO A LOT BUT IT'S NOW
FOUR STORIES IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF TWO STOREY
HOUSES.
>> YEAH.
OH ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY YES.
YES.
YEP YEP YEP YEP YEP.
>> AND THAT'S WHAT THIS CHAPTER
IS LACKING ANY ANY DESCRIPTION
OR INSTRUCTION ABOUT THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT IT'S AT LEAST
THERE'S A SPOT IN THE STANDARDS
THAT WE CAN I THINK THIS THIS
CHAPTER IS SMALL.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO REMAIN
SMALL BUT IT DOES NEED SOME
HELP.
>> YES, I THINK YES.
AND THAT MOST OF MY COMMENTS
ARE ABOUT THAT.
YES.
AND THIS COMMENT ARE THESE
SISTERS ALSO COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN NEEDS THE APPROPRIATE
INAPPROPRIATE CATEGORY.
>> YEAH.
FOR THE SAKE OF CONSISTENCY
JUST TO TELL PEOPLE THIS WORKS
THIS DOESN'T YEAH.
>> AND SO WHAT I THOUGHT WAS
GOING TO MAKE SENSE TO ME MIKE
SO MARIJANA HAD THE COMMENT
ABOUT OK, WELL THERE'S THERE'S
TWO DIFFERENT THINGS GOING ON
HERE BECAUSE YOU COULD BE LIKE
THERE'S THERE'S THE CASE WHERE
YOU HAVE AN EXISTING STRUCTURE
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT AND
YOU WANT TO MOVE IT.
WELL, THERE'S APPROPRIATE AND
INAPPROPRIATE
THINGS YOU CAN DO
REGARDING THAT AND THEN LIKE
WHAT STEVE WAS JUST TALKING
ABOUT, THERE'S SOME STRUCTURE
THAT YOU WANT TO BRING IN TO
YOUR PROPERTY THAT'S GOING TO
BE A NEW THING.
YOU CAN THINK OF IT AS AN
ADDITION OR NEW CONSTRUCTION
BUT THOSE ARE TWO TOTALLY
SEPARATE THINGS THAT ARE
INVOLVED IN RELOCATION.
AND SO JUST MY COMMENT HERE IS
BASICALLY SAYING LIKE I THINK
WE NEED TWO DIFFERENT SECTIONS
AND WITHIN THOSE TWO SECTIONS
HAVE THE LIST OF APPROPRIATE
INAPPROPRIATE SO THAT THERE'S
CONSISTENCY WITH THE OTHER
CHAPTERS.
YEP,
ALL RIGHT.
ONE FOR THE DISTRICT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
>> LET'S SEE.
>> AND THEN THERE'S
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN REVIEWING
THE POSSIBLE RELOCATION
OF DISTRICT STRUCTURES
.
>> YES, THESE ARE GOOD
QUESTIONS TO ASK IF WE CAN
CHANGE ANY OF THEM TO
APPROPRIATE INAPPROPRIATE I
THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE THE
QUESTION MORE SUITED.
>> I AGREE.
I WAS LIKE THESE ARE REALLY
THOUGHT PROVOKING QUESTIONS BUT
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO NOW
THAT I'VE ANSWERED ALL OF THEM
.
>> AND IT'S FUNNY ENOUGH SOME
OF THEM ARE SORT OF WORDED SO
YOU WOULD WANT TO SAY YES WOULD
BE THE RIGHT ANSWER AND THEN
SOME OF THEM ARE WORDED IN SUCH
A WAY THAT NO IS PROBABLY THE
RIGHT.
>> SO THERE ISN'T REALLY A
CONSISTENCY.
I THINK IT'S IN A WAY IT'S KIND
OF OBVIOUS BUT ALSO THE
DOCUMENT ITSELF JUST ASKS THE
QUESTIONS.
>> IT DOESN'T TELL YOU WHAT
THEY ARE.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
YEAH.
>> THAT'S A GOOD POINT
.
>> YES.
ME
THE PICTURE YOU PUT HERE
THAT IS THE BLUE PAINTED BRICK
BUILDING THAT USED TO BE ON
WASHINGTON BETWEEN DIVISION AND
STATE RIGHT OUT OF THE BLUE
ROSE OR SOMETHING.
YEAH IT'S PULLING IT'S AT THE
TOP OF HUNWICK TRAIL.
>> YEAH YEAH.
AT THE TOP OF THE HILL IN THE
CHAPTER YEAH YEAH.
>> IT'S GOING OVER THE BROADWAY
BRIDGE AND THAT PICTURE YEAH
THAT'S INCREDIBLE PHOTO.
>> YEAH THAT'S A GOOD ONE.
DOES THE DOES IT CONTINUE.
>> SO I'M TRYING TO REMEMBER
THAT IS THAT'S NOT IN THE STORE
DISTRICT WHERE IT IS THERE'S NO
NO.
SO DOES IT CONTINUE TO BE
PROTECTED BY US NOW THAT IT'S
THERE?
>> NO, NO IT WAS NOT IN A
DISTRICT IT WASN'T AND IT WAS
WELL IT WAS PROBABLY A
CONTRIBUTING HISTORIC STRUCTURE
IN THE THE THE CHENEY WAS I
GUESS THE NAME THE DISTRICT
ANYMORE THE DISTRICT THAT WENT
AWAY IN 2001 BECAUSE IT WAS
SCATTERED SITE.
>> I BELIEVE THAT IT WAS ON
THAT LIST AT ONE POINT.
>> BUT WHEN WAS THIS MOVED?
>> WAS IT IN THE LATE 90S?
NO.
OR WAS IN THE 2000S OK WE ARE
OK OK SO IT WAS NO LONGER
LISTED AT THE POINT THAT IT WAS
MOVED.
>> YEAH IN THEORY A HISTORIC
STRUCTURE IN AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT IS MOVED TO A NON
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE LOSE PURVIEW RIGHT RIGHT.
>> IN THEORY OK DEMOLITION
OF HISTORIC STRUCTURES BEFORE
WE GO THERE I HAD ONE OTHER AND
IT'S IT'S KIND OF A TANGENT
SORT OF QUESTION AND I JUST WAS
WONDERING THERE'S CERTAIN CASES
WHERE YOU'VE GOT A HOUSE IT'S
LIKE IT WAS ORIGINALLY DESIGNED
TO LOW ON THE SITE.
MAYBE IT'S THE ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS ARE LIKE THIS ALL THE
TIME IS JUST LIKE WELL CAN I
JUST LIFT IT UP TWO FEET OR HEY
I WANT TO LIFT IT UP TEN FEET
AND PUT IN A STORY UNDER IT FOR
SOME REASON.
>> YEAH OK SO LIKE IS THAT
THAT'S SOMEWHERE IN THIS
DOCUMENT WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT
THAT BUT THAT'S NOT QUITE
RELOCATION.
>> NO BUT IT'S JUST AN
ALTERATION.
YEAH IT DOES NEED TO BE
ADDRESSED SPECIFICALLY.
YEAH THOSE THAT QUESTION DOES
COME TO THE COMMISSION WANTS TO
LIKE YEAH.
SOMEBODY WANTS TO ADD A COURSE
OF YES TO THE HOUSE OF TWELVE
INCHES BECAUSE IT'S NOT LIKE
IT'S ROTTING AWAY.
YEAH YEAH.
>> OH YEAH.
SO I PUT THAT IN THERE AS A
COMMENT SO YES IT CAN GO
SOMEWHERE ELSE I ADDED IN THERE
THE THE THE OTHER YOU KNOW THE
TWIN OF THAT WHICH IS WHEN
PEOPLE WANT TO RAISE THE ROOF
WHEN THEY WELL THAT'S OH IF WE
GET MORE HEADROOM IF WE COULD
JUST RAISE THE ROOF UP FOUR
FEET YES.
>> THAT'S GENERALLY
INAPPROPRIATE BUT THANK YOU YOU
SPARKED MY MEMORY ANOTHER ONE
SO NOW THEY'RE BOTH DOWN THERE.
>> OK, GOOD.
ALL RIGHT LET'S SEE.
>> SO THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN
DEMOLISH A HISTORIC STRUCTURE
IS WITH A NOTICE TO PROCEED.
>> THIS MAY ALSO APPLY TO
MOVING A HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN
A HISTORIC DISTRICT BUT
CERTAINLY FOR DEMOLISHING
DEMOLITION AND THE LANGUAGE
NOTICE TO PROCEED HERE ON THIS
PAGE IS STRAIGHT OUT OF CODE
THAT'S THAT'S THE ONLY WAY YOU
CAN GET A HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
>> IT'S OUT OF THE THE
MUNICIPAL CODE , THE ZONING IN
OUR HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CHAPTER.
>> YEAH, THIS IS AND THIS IS
RIGHT OUT OF THE STATE ENABLING
LEGISLATION FOR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
>> YEAH.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE GOOD TO
PUT IN THIS DOCUMENT TO SAY
WHERE THE SOURCE IS BECAUSE IT
JUST FEELS LIKE THEN YOU'RE
READING SOMETHING THAT'S
OFFICIAL BECAUSE YOU'RE ABOUT
TO DO SOMETHING SERIOUS YOU
KNOW SO IT'S GOOD TO DESCRIBE
EXACTLY WHAT THE SOURCE IS.
>> I'LL GIVE IT SOME WEIGHT.
OK, NOTICES TO PROCEED COME UP
EVERY I DON'T KNOW FIVE YEARS
OR SO WE'LL GO ON.
>> THEY'RE USUALLY ODDBALLS AND
THEY'RE USUALLY DIFFICULT TO
WORK WITH BECAUSE THEY'RE SO
DIFFERENT FROM EVERYTHING ELSE
THAT'S IN THESE DESIGN
GUIDELINES EVIDENCE OF UNDUE
FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IS ANOTHER
THING THAT IS DESCRIBED BY THE
STATE ENABLING LEGISLATION AND
BOTH OF THESE ARE BASED ON
FEDERAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION
REGULATION FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR.
SO THIS AGAIN IS RIGHT OUT
OF CODE ABOUT IF YOU THINK YOU
ARE UNDER UNDUE FINANCIAL
HARDSHIP BUT NEED TO MAKE
REPAIRS TO YOUR HOUSE, THIS IS
THE PATH THAT YOU WOULD APPLY
TO THE DC TO TAKE AND THAT'S
JUST OH, THERE'S A LOT
OF INFORMATION THAT YOU NEED TO
PROVIDE.
YEAH.
THERE'S A TALK GOING ON.
BUT THEN THE LAST ONE SAYS IN
ANY EVENT ANY OF THE
INFORMATION IS NOT REASONABLY
AVAILABLE TO THE OWNER CANNOT
BE OBTAINED BY THE OWNER MAYBE
NOT IS CLOSED WITHOUT A
SUBSTANTIAL ADVERSE IMPACT UPON
THE OWNER OR THE OWNER MAY FILE
WITH THE COMMISSION A
DESCRIPTION OF THE INFORMATION
WHICH CANNOT BE OBTAINED AND
DESCRIBE THE REASON WHY SUCH
INFORMATION CANNOT BE OBTAINED
.
THERE IS AN OUTPATIENT YOUR
LETTER AND LETTER AND AN OUT
FOR THE PREVIOUS ARTHUR M..
>> YEAH BUT STILL IT'S ALL
SUPPOSED TO BE PROVIDED POST
THAT ONE.
>> OK AND THAT'S IT.
>> THAT'S OUR WHOLE CHAPTER.
WHAT ABOUT THE VERY FIRST SO
DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC
STRUCTURES THERE'S A FIRST
PARAGRAPH THE LAST SENTENCE
SAYS THE DEMOLITION OF THE
HISTORIC RESOURCE WILL ONLY BE
PERMITTED IF THE CONDITIONS TO
ISSUE A NOTICE TO PROCEED ARE
MET.
>> THAT KIND OF MAKES IT SEEM
LIKE IF YOU JUST MEET THE
CONDITIONS YOU CAN DEMOLISH IT.
>> BUT IT BUT IT'S ALSO THE
COMMISSION HAS TO APPROVE THAT,
CORRECT?
>> RIGHT.
SO IT SAYS THAT IN THE NEXT
PARAGRAPH BUT IT SEEMED LIKE IN
THAT SENTENCE OR IMMEDIATELY
FOLLOWING THAT IF YOU MAKE IT
NEEDS THAT PART OF THAT
SENTENCE IS KIND OF WRONG IF
YOU STATE IT KIND OF LIKE THAT
WITHOUT SAYING THAT THE
COMMISSION HAS TO YES.
>> APPROVE THE DEMOLITION AGREE
.
NOW IF YOU WANT TO ARGUE THAT
YOU HAVE A THE DOCUMENTATION OR
THE ASSUMPTION OF YOUR
STRUCTURE IS THAT IT'S A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE AND YOU
BELIEVE THAT IT'S
NONCONTRIBUTING IS THAT ALSO A
NOTICE TO PROCEED?
>> NO, THAT WOULD THAT HAPPEN
IN NORTH DIVISION STREET?
YEAH.
A FEW YEARS AGO I RECALL THE
APPLICANT BROUGHT IN ADDITIONAL
HISTORIC DOCUMENTATION RIGHT
ABOUT THE HISTORY OF THE
BUILDING AND WHEN PARTS OF IT
WERE MOVED ON AND OFF SITE AND
THE WAY IT WAS CONSTRUCTED AND
IT WAS ALL INFORMATION THAT WAS
NOT AVAILABLE TO THE COMMISSION
WHEN WE WERE GOING THROUGH AN
HAVING CONSULTANTS SAY THIS IS
CONTRIBUTING AND THIS ONE IS
NOT.
YEAH, SO IT SEEMED TO ME TO
HAVE BEEN BUILT DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE BUT THAT
IS NOT ENOUGH BECAUSE IT WAS IT
WAS A IT WAS A FRANK AND
BUILDING.
IT WAS A COUPLE OF BUILDINGS GO
ON TOGETHER AND AND THE
APPLICANT PRESENTED ENOUGH
DOCUMENTATION THAT THE
COMMISSION AGREED AND DECLARED
THAT IT WAS A NONCONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE.
>> RIGHT.
I REMEMBER THAT BUT THAT BUT
THAT IS LIKE A DIFFERENT
PROCESS THAN THIS AND IT'S IT'S
NOT REALLY LIKE LAID OUT IN
THIS DOCUMENT IS LIKE HOW YOU
WOULD DEAL WITH THAT.
IT'S THAT'S A ONE OFF KIND OF A
THING.
>> YEAH, IT'S NOT THAT'S THE
ONLY TIME THIS THAT'S EVER COME
UP.
YEAH.
I MEAN IF YOU ALL THINK THAT
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT IT BE
COVERED IT COULD BE HERE.
I DON'T WANT TO GIVE PEOPLE
FALSE HOPE BUT WE COULD MAYBE
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
CONTRIBUTING A NONCONTRIBUTING
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
DOCUMENT WE COULD TALK ABOUT
YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
IF I'D
RATHER NOT OPEN UP THAT CAN
OF WORMS BUT I JUST WAS
WONDERING IF IT WAS THIS OR NOT
IF YEAH.
>> I MEAN YEAH NO IT'S NOT IT'S
DIFFERENT OK.
>> YEAH I PUT IT IN ANYWAY.
>> WHAT MADE ME THINK OF IT WAS
LIKE IT WAS A LOT
OF INFORMATION THAT WAS
PROVIDED IT WAS SORT OF LIKE
THIS LIST HERE WAS A LOT ALL
RIGHT OK OK WE CAN AT LEAST
CLARIFY IT AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE DOCUMENT OK ALL RIGHT
GREAT.
>> IS THAT IT.
THAT'S IT.
>> ANYBODY ELSE COMMENTS
QUESTIONS.
IT'S A GOOD PICTURE.
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE PICTURES
IT WAS YOU KNOW I WONDER IF
THERE'S A A HISTORIC OH THAT I
KIND OF HAD A QUESTION ABOUT
THAT.
>> UM BUT THEN WE'VE HEARD SO
MANY STAFF REPORTS WHERE IT
SAYS OH THIS PART OF THE
BUILDING WAS MOVED ACROSS THE
STREET LIKE IT HAPPENED SO MUCH
LIKE IN THE EARLY 20TH CENTURY.
YEAH.
THAT I WONDER IF THERE IS A
COOL PHOTO OF YOU KNOW, BLACK
AND WHITE.
>> YOU KNOW, I LIKE BUSH IS
THIRTY PEOPLE PUSHING ON.
YEAH.
>> WITH A HORSE AND BUGGY AND
STUFF.
YEAH THERE'S PROBABLY SOME
GREAT PHOTOS THERE'S SOME GOOD
ONES FROM THE FIFTIES IN THAT
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY.
THIRTY BUELL'S YEAH YEAH
EXACTLY.
>> THAT WOULD BE COOL.
ALL RIGHT I'M TRYING TO MOVE
OLD PLACE NEXT OH THE ONE I
TOLD YOU ABOUT BEFORE.
YEAH YEAH.
HOW FAR YOU HAVE TO GO DEPENDS
STILL SEARCHING BUT THERE'S
THERE'S THREE POSSIBLE SITES TO
BRING IT TO PAWNSHOPS JUST LIKE
THIS IT'LL HAVE TO GO UP SELF
YOU DO WASH IT AND GO BACK AND
HERE AND SPEAK TOWARDS THAT'S A
BIG WIDE ROAD AND IT'S I THINK
EASIER TO MOVE POWER LINES ON
ON THE ROAD AND SOME LITTLE
STREET.
SEE WHAT THAT HAS TO SAY ABOUT
THAT ENOUGH.
>> YEAH.
DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH BILLS.
YEAH YEAH.
WE'RE ROUNDING UP THE NEWEST
WORRY AND MOST ROLLED UP
SLEEVES AND PROFESSIONAL
ROLLER'S SOUNDS LIKE A BIG
PROJECT.
>> YES.
ALL RIGHT.
YES.
OK, WELL LET'S MOVE MOVE ALONG.
ARE WE DONE WITH THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES GREEN THEN WE'LL
MOVE ON TO MINUTES AND SKIP
THIS MONTH.
>> WE'VE GOT THE APRIL I HGC
MEETING MINUTES TO LOOK AT AND
YOU CAN LOOK AT HIM BUT YOU
CAN'T VOTE ON OK WELL LET'S
LET'S MOVE ON THEN IF WE CAN'T
VOTE TO I REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS AND ARE THERE ANY
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS THIS
MONTH.
>> VERY GOOD IN THAT CASE WE'LL
MOVE ON TO ASSIGNMENTS.
WE'VE GOT OUR NEXT MEETING.
>> THE MEETING'S ON JUNE 12TH
AND SO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE IS
MONDAY, JUNE 9TH AND IT'S AT
P.M. I'M IN I COULD DO TWO
THREE IN A ROW.
I MISSED ONE.
GREAT, WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THAT'LL BE A COMMISSIONER
CALDERON AND KAPLAN'S SPECIAL
AND IT'S APPRECIATED.
THANK YOU BOTH
.
>> I AM FLYING BACK A THAT DAY
SO THURSDAY MORNING FLIGHT BACK
INTO ANN ARBOR.
I'M PLANNING ON BEING HERE BUT
IT'S PENDING DELTA HAVING AN ON
TIME DEPARTURE AND ALL THAT.
>> SO I AM PLANNING ON BEING
HERE FOR THAT ONE BUT THERE IS
A CHANCE THAT I WON'T BE ABLE
TO MAKE IT.
>> I WAS PLANNING ON MISSING
AND ACTUALLY BUT WE CHANGED OUR
FLIGHT AROUND AND SO NOW I
HOPEFULLY CAN MAKE IT OK.
WE'RE ON TO ITEM K REPORTS FROM
STAFF.
>> ARE THERE ANY REPORTS FROM
STAFF THIS MORNING?
THERE ARE NOT VERY GOOD IN THAT
CASE WE WILL MOVE ON TO L
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS THE
COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE TO
EXPRESS THIS MONTH?
STEVE'S PONDERING.
I'LL JUST SAY THAT THERE'S BEEN
A LOT OF DISCUSSION IN THE CITY
OBVIOUSLY ABOUT THE ANN ARBOR
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
REALLY IT'S BEEN PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> I'VE I FIELDED SOME
QUESTIONS FROM YOU KNOW, THE
NEIGHBORS THEY YOU TRACK ME
DOWN AND YOU KNOW, I JUST FEEL
LIKE THE HISTORIC DISTRICT HAS
COME UP IN IN THE DISCUSSION.
>> BUT IT'S REALLY NOT AS FAR
AS I KNOW IT DOESN'T HAVE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE
HISTORIC DISTRICTS BECAUSE IT'S
NOT EVEN ZONING RIGHT.
>> IT'S LIKE THE STEP BEFORE
ZONING WHERE IT'S LIKE THIS THE
YOU KNOW, YOUR HIGH LEVEL
STRATEGIC LEVEL OF PLANNING
BEFORE IT WOULD GET DOWN INTO
LAWS AND ZONING AND STUFF LIKE
THAT.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW WHERE THE
SORT OF RUMORS OR DISCUSSION IS
COMING FROM BUT YOU KNOW, I'VE
HAD A FEW DIFFERENT PEOPLE FROM
A FEW DIFFERENT GROUPS SAY HEY,
SO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT IS
GOING AWAY OR SOMETHING LIKE
STUFF LIKE THAT WHERE IT'S LIKE
OK, ALL RIGHT.
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THAT.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A
CHANCE TO RESPOND BUT YEAH YEAH
I FEEL THAT QUESTION QUITE A
FEW TIMES BECAUSE I'VE BEEN IN
SOME OF THESE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN OPEN HOUSES AND THINGS AND
JUST PEOPLE CALLING AND ASKING
IT'S YOU'VE GOT IT RIGHT.
>> THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
THE PLAN THIS IS ARE GOING TO
WORK FOR TOWARD NEXT COMES
ZONING AND ONCE A NEW ZONING
ORDINANCE IS IMPLEMENTED IT
SURE DOES ALLOW US TO IMPLEMENT
THE PLAN.
>> BUT IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THERE'S THIS EXTRA
LAYER IT'S CALLED THE CHAPTER
ONE FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION
AND THERE'S NO GETTING AROUND
IT.
>> IT IS WHAT IT IS NO MATTER
WHAT THE UNDERLYING ZONING IS
LIKE.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, IN THE DOWNTOWN
ON MAIN STREET YOU COULD PUT A
VERY TALL BUILDING IF IT
WEREN'T A HISTORIC DISTRICT BUT
IT PLACES A CAP BASED MORE ON
THE THE SIZE OF THE DISTRICT IN
THE BUILDINGS IN THE
SURROUNDING THE NEIGHBORS AND
THE MATERIALS IN THE MACING
RATHER THAN JUST YOU COULD GO
THIS HIGH.
SO SO SO IT'S IT'S I'M GLAD
THAT NEIGHBORS ARE THINKING
ABOUT THE HISTORIC DISTRICT BUT
BUT NO THE THE NEITHER THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN NOR THE
ZONING WILL WILL WILL BE
AFFECTED WILL NEGATIVELY AFFECT
THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
I WILL CERTAINLY GET A LOT MORE
QUESTIONS IF YEAH.
IF BUILDING SIZES OR HEIGHTS
ARE ALLOWED TO GO UP BUT YOU
KNOW THINGS SHOULD PROCEED
RIGHT.
>> THE STANDARDS THEY WERE JUST
REVIEWING ALL OF THAT STUFF
WILL BE STATE SANDERS SAME
GUIDELINES.
>> YEP.
THERE YOU HAVE IT.
I JUST THOUGHT I'D BRING IT UP
SINCE I WAS GETTING THE
COMMENTS AND JUST SO PEOPLE CAN
HAVE THIS THIS DISCUSSION
DOCUMENTED AS AS AS SOME
INFORMATION GOOD.
>> OK, ANY OTHER CONCERNS
COMMISSIONERS SEEING NONE.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO COMMUNICATIONS
.
>> I DON'T THINK WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH.
SO NOW WE'LL ADJOURN THE MAY
8TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE DC
MEETING AT SEVEN FIFTY FOUR
P.M. THANK YOU